Persistent Bash Customization
The behavior of interactive shells in
Bash is determined by the system-wide
bashrc file located in /etc/bash.bashrc.
The system-wide Bash settings can be
overridden by editing the .bashrc file
located in any user’s home directory.
In the previous section, we explored
the alias command,
which sets an alias for the
current terminal session.
We can also insert this command
into the .bashrc file
in a user’s home directory to set
a persistent alias.
The .bashrc script is executed
any time that user logs in.
Since this file is a shell script, we can
insert any command
that could be executed from
the command prompt.
Let’s examine a few lines of
our default .bashrc file.
You might recognize the HISTSIZE and
HISTFILESIZE environment variables…
and the alias command that
displays colored output.
You will also find some other aliases
in this file that are commented out.